willing to give it a shot you're willing
to trust your instincts you actually
have the opportunity to bring something
new and fresh to the world so the only
way you're ever gonna bring something
new you're gonna be remembered you're
gonna have a fresh voice is if you're
not afraid to go against the grain and I
forget who said this but it's a really
powerful quote and that is the only way
to really do something extraordinary in
life is to go against everyone else and
be right I've always thought that was
amazing because it really is a two-part
thing it's not enough to go against the
mainstream you've got to go against the
mainstream and be right so whenever you
find yourself in that situation then
hopefully you will have believed in
yourself enough to have actually gone
down the path but the key is that you've
got to build that confidence to build
the confidence it really does come from
competence you've got to get good at
something and this is becoming more and
more a theme for me as I get more and
more questions from people about how to
really the question usually stems from I
want to create my own podcast what
should I do and my answer is always and
forever go get good at something else
first so for instance if you look at
what I actually create the content
around it's always about something else
it's not about creating content in and
of itself which by the way I don't think
is yet an area of expertise and by the
oh my god I can't believe yesterday my
boy Evan Carmichael if you guys don't
know Evan go check out his channel so on
YouTube yesterday he released the video
breaking down everything that we're
doing wrong on our YouTube channel and
oh my god it is such good advice I was
blown away so I don't yet consider
myself an expert in actually creating
the content where I do think I'm an
expert is in building businesses so that
I did for 15 years before there was any
sort of way are not way because it
existed I just wasn't doing it so I
wasn't creating content around it I
wasn't talking about it I was just doing
it day in and day out and even now if
I'm really honest the thing that I'm
betting on that I believe in isn't the
the content creation it's it's building
the studio and
so I'll say that it's not the social
content creation it's the traditional
narrative content creation that's my
obsession that's the thing that I think
is really going to help people building
the studio is what I care about and
literally I was telling the team the
other day I get so frustrated when I'm
my schedule is / is dominated by doing
things for the social content and not
dominated by doing things that I think
is really going to move the studio for
it because to me the way that I'm gonna
have the impact on the world that I
really want to have is 20% social
content it's 80% narrative traditional
content so that's really the answer
you've got to double down and getting
great at something now when you're great
at something you're just not gonna be
afraid to stand alone because you're
gonna start to understand what works and
what doesn't work and when you know what
doesn't work then it's like okay I'm not
gonna do that so even if it's like for
whatever reason I'm being drawn to that
I'm going to set that aside I'm gonna go
over here I'm gonna try this thing
because I've just got so much experience
I've got a sense of what's gonna play
and what's not gonna play so that really
is the key to being that lone wolf but
once you get there it is incredibly
powerful because you can sway culture
which hey is exactly what we're setting
out to do alright next question is from
Joe cross our boy what is up Joe Cross
coming to us from Facebook after
listening to everything you've created
I'm not sure I've ever heard the story
of how you chose the name impact theory
could you share it the reason you
haven't heard the story is because we
have P SD over the [__] so it was very
very painful and I PST I said P SD like
literate PTSD I was like I'm sketching
out like my mind is freezing
we have PTSD over that PSD is the
Photoshop file name so yes it was a very
long and traumatic process which has
caused my brain to stop working
currently it was we made a list of we
literally sat around for hours at a time
throwing out names originally I wanted
to call the company
oh god can I remember now mission house
I was obsessed with mission house
because we had a mission and this was
like the
place the physical manifestation of that
thing and we debated it internally
endlessly and we put it out to a survey
because people are like I don't know
kind of sounds like a soup kitchen and
then we put it out and did one of those
that you can actually pay there's like a
service where you pay whatever a hundred
bucks and they go and have people take
this survey and the overwhelming number
of people were like yeah that makes me
think of a soup kitchen so that's why we
moved away from that one but we had
legitimate lis on the list probably over
250 names that we were batting around
for a long time my obsession was impact
machine because I wanted to be a machine
of impact where we were just pumping it
out pumping it out like impact after
impact and then I realized ok that's how
people get caught up in their own hype
the truth is I have a theory about how
to impact people and that was how that
name started getting thrown around
impact Theory also is a theory about how
the moon was formed which is that the
earth and it's early stages was hit by a
meteorite so big that it's spun off like
this molten stuff which ultimately
coalesced into the moon so I loved there
was like this
astronomy scientific element to the name
impact theory also there was a little
bit of mine share I'm going really deep
on this answer but you did ask and but
it was not the obvious choice and that's
the thing when naming a company it's
shocking how unobvious things usually
seem so yeah we went through a lot a lot
a lot of iterations Agent Smith had his
obsession let's see if I can remember it
potential ism yeah buddy I have to say I
gave that one a serious look I kind of
dug it it was a made-up word which I
really liked which meant it could be
trademarked oh and for a while we
actually not trademarked the term but we
originally in fact our corporate name is
still a vulvar type LLC because that was
the one man we were gonna be that for a
while we were gonna be White Rabbit and
we actually created that company so we
created two companies first white rabbit
LLC then evolved er type LLC and then
ultimately we ended up with impact
theory there were just a bazillion
reasons why what we could trademark what
we couldn't trademark what we wanted
people to think and feel
it representing what we're really about
so yeah all that's up but I still get
mailed to White Rabbit LLC so there you
have it all right next question from
Harris Slim hey Tom how do I change my
mindset from wanting quick results to
developing the patience to enjoy the
process of acquiring the results I'm
trying to study for my exams and lose
weight I know it'll take time and I know
the time is going to pass anyway why not
just take action so first of all yeah
exactly why not just take action so
there's no arguing that one but I will
say that I can't give you an answer on
how to develop patience because I think
patience is a crime against humanity I
think anybody that has patience is
wasting their [__] time
I think you should show up every day and
play like today is the only day you have
and that everything has to be done right
now today so you have to play the long
game and you've got a look at how long
you may have to go at something really
really hard in order to make it come
true but I think the thing that's
allowed me to have the kind of success
that I've had and as rapidly as I've had
it is I I cultivate auntie patience I
have no patience I'm trying to do
everything right now but I play that way
for a very long period of time so I'm
trying to go balls to the wall all day
every day for decades now you've got to
love what you're doing and that's why I
push that angle like you've really gotta
love what you're doing because the
truthful answer is you've got to show up
and go hard hard hard for decades before
anything is gonna happen but that
doesn't mean that I'm sitting back and
being patient I'm [__] as impatient
as they come so it's not about giving up
the desire for fast results I want fast
results but if you're willing to play
the game long term if you're willing to
be reputation protective which really
forces me to think about who do I want
to be 10 20 years from now how do I want
people to see me what do I want to be
true about myself so none of its coming
from a place of patience but it is
coming from a reality of accepting hey
sometimes if you're the bull in the
china shop
it actually moves you backwards so I'm
not doing it to be patient I'm doing it
because I know that's the only way to
get what I want as fast as human
possible is right now in this moment I
need to back off so you definitely have
to get good at that but I would say
cultivate aunty patience all right
this question is from Karthik Minh Anh
how do you rewire your brain to change
your beliefs as you have emphasized on
many times in your videos your beliefs
make or break you thank you so the way
that you rewire your brain is first of
all just to understand neuroplasticity
and how it works it's a process called
myelin nation and what's happening is
there's an old saying neurons that fire
together wire together so whenever
you're doing something in a repetitious
manner your brain is watching for that
from a structural standpoint that's
saying okay these pathways are firing a
lot so we want to make them more
efficient to make them more efficient
you wrap this fatty tissue around the
connection points called myelin so that
is one why it's important to have fat in
your diet because you're gonna need it
to create neural connections like that
but then that very process requires the
repetition so you've got to do something
over and over and over now if you do
something over and over and over in a
sloppy manner you're gonna you're gonna
wire things in that sloppy manner also
if you want to rather if you want to
like get rid of an old habit rather than
thinking of unwinding it or
demyelinating what you want to do is
just Milan ate a new pathway so instead
of thinking about tearing down the old
think only about building the new
there's an amazing quote around that
that's essentially what I just said
I forget who it's by but that's the idea
don't spend your energy thinking about
tearing down the old think about
building the new so find that thing that
you want to do that you know you need to
get great at and then in a very
disciplined structured manner practice
the [__] out of it over and over and
over with a relentless obsessive drive
in fact if today were Sesame Street I'm
telling you the word of the day is
obsession obsession that is I think one
of the keys a guy that we just
interviewed a guy named Taylor Wilson I
cannot wait for you guys to meet him he
created nuclear fusion at the age of 14
and he credits at all - obsession look
the kid is bright there's no denying
that but his brother actually scores off
the charts higher than him in like
pretty much every standardized test I've
ever taken but he's just done way more
than his brother cuz his brother doesn't
have that passion he doesn't have that
obsession he's not in love with anything
that he's doing so that's what Taylor
really credits with getting as much done
as he has as early in his life is he
just has that thing that he loves and so
he goes all-in on it so when you've got
that and you can practice in that super
disciplined way you're going to get the
rewiring all right next question is from
Dan bead this one is from YouTube as an
entrepreneur individual what are your
thoughts on learning skills information
not directly related to your short-term
goal like learning biology and wanting
to be a neuroscientist okay so this
really comes down to you've got to have
long ranging goals you've got to know
exactly where you're trying to go and
then work your way backwards so I want
to build a studio and what do I need to
do to actually build a studio that's
bigger than Disney and then you
literally come backwards to where you
are now once you've identified where you
are and where you want to get to you
know what your skill gap is now you need
to identify like what is that lead
Domino you're always trying to find the
lead Domino mad shout out to Tim Ferriss
for giving me that terminology and you
want to find the thing that when you
knock that down it's gonna knock a bunch
of other things down so if you want to
be a neuroscientist and you know that
you're gonna have to learn biology and
that biology is the base of all of that
awesome then you know that doing that is
going to be critical to what you're
trying to accomplish long term so your
long term goal of neuroscientist your
immediate term is learning biology if
you know that that's just what it takes
to get where you want to go then it
they're not two competing things it only
becomes a problem you're pursuing two
competing things meaning they're not
helping each other they don't when you
put energy into one it doesn't naturally
lead Domino knocked down the other one
or partly so they become competitive in
the sense that for your time so that is
something that you really have to avoid
so you want to find that thing so let me
just finish what I was saying about
being a studio so I worked my way back
to where I am if I want to do you know
let's say a hundred million dollar film
if I do that now and we lose I lose
everything so that wouldn't make any
sense
so gambling everything on one thing
learned from our boy Richard Branson
always heads your downside it doesn't
mean that you don't take risks but it
means you don't bet the farm on any one
thing so you need to have acceptable
downside so I just know read the
hitmakers if you want more information
on this that in any creative endeavor
you have to be able to survive a
ridiculously low hit rate which means
most of what you do is going to fail
it's just not gonna resonate I fully
understand that most of the videos we
put out don't resonate right there's
precious few David Goggins Mel Robbins
like there's just some that just smash
and they go crazy and viral simon Sinek
right and then most of it doesn't most
of its like a base hit so you've got to
be able to survive that so I know I have
to have a visual medium that's far
cheaper okay what's that visual medium
comic books awesome I can do that on a
much less expensive routes measured in
the thousands of dollars instead of
millions of dollars and now I can put
out a whole bunch of those and if most
of them fail that's fine we look at the
one that hits and then we go from there
so work your way back
I could literally spend the next eight
hours talking to you exhaustively about
how I created that skill gap pathway but
that's in a very small nutshell what you
need to do okay next question is from
Tennille file steel Wow - Neal file
steal miss literally how it's build all
right this is on Facebook how do you
approach handling a toxic work
environment that uses character
assassination Jesus and bullying as
means to problem-solve nobody wants to
run out of a job because others use such
methods is it worth the fight at that
point if so how do you begin to
implement change wow there's a lot don't
scroll off this one okay
so first of all I'm gonna be really
honest I want everybody to follow my
thought process my first assumption to
Neal is that you're wrong my first
assumption is that you're delicate now I
could be wrong I want to fully
acknowledge that but because I'm always
looking at what I'm doing wrong I put
myself in your position and I say okay
I'm in this environment that uses
character assassination and bullying and
I think two things one am I just being
overly sensitive and two if I'm not
being overly sensitive and it really is
like that how the hell did I end up here
so I didn't choose well going in I
didn't interview them well I didn't
figure out what was going on for real in
the organization I didn't ask around I
didn't interview them like whatever it
was I have done something wrong so in
reading the question that I definitely
have that in the back
my mind now I'm going to assume for a
second that that's not the case that
you've fully accurately read it
correctly that you're in an organization
that actually uses character
assassination and bullying which is
insanity and I would say get out as fast
as you can so getting out as fast as you
can looks like this while you still have
the job because I get it you've got to
make ends meet there is no reason boys
and girls to burn the ships at the shore
that is like something that you reserve
for the most dire of situations but if
you're in one of those situations we'll
set that aside for now for now I'm going
to assume that you can ride it out for a
little bit longer and you're gonna go
find another job you're gonna interview
while you still have the paycheck coming
in that gives you the time to do all the
things you didn't do well coming into
this organization you want to really
interview them as much as they're
interviewing you I think that's very
very important and if they respond
weirdly to you asking questions or
wanting to talk to some of the employees
then I'm just red flag after red flag
that isn't a place that you want to be
so you're gonna do that you're gonna
interview you're gonna find a job you
really care about where your values are
aligned where your values are aligned I
cannot stress that enough
so look at what they write down one
thing I found is as an organized
organization gets bigger you're only as
good as what you put on paper so you're
gonna want to see like what are their
what's their handbook look like actually
read it and figure out like what do they
value what's their sick Day policy that
that's something that I made a huge
mistake on earlier in my life because I
won't derail on that I made a huge
mistake on it and it it really showed me
that what you write down is all that
mattered it didn't matter how I treated
people one on one it only mattered what
I put down on paper so that's one of the
reasons that we have an unlimited
vacation policy now if you have an
amazing opportunity come up in your life
go do it if you're sick stay home like
so find out what people value that's
hugely important also what product do
they make is it something that you can
get excited about is it something that
you believe in is it does that matter to
you by the way because I'm painting my
belief system onto you so figuring out
what you care about what kind of thing
you're going to be willing to struggle
for because the struggle is guaranteed
the success is not so you've got to
really believe in what they do
you have to align with their value
system in the way they run their
organization and then meet some of the
people just to make sure that you get a
good vibe so yeah that's what you gonna
do get out get out get out that is my
biggest piece of advice because if they
really use character assassination and
bullying I wouldn't try to implement
change I would GTFO okay next question
is from Joshua Lanier
can you explain and give examples of how
to identify how to identify indicators
of being busy versus being productive
towards your goals thank you so yes it
goes like this you need to be able to
relentlessly self assess at the end of
every day I do it in three hour
increments but that may not be the vibe
for you I just know for me to stay on
track I really need to hold myself
accountable and shorter increments
because I absolutely despise losing time
so going back to my earlier point about
not being patient at all but once you
have whatever increment it is you're
going to revisit your performance you're
gonna ask did I take a meaningful step
towards my goal now being able to
effectively answer that question is not
easy but this is exactly what you have
to get good at you've got to be able to
say okay this is my goal so I'll use me
again so my goal is to build a studio
that rivals Disney what did i do today
so what does Disney do right they put
out amazing intellectual property that
gets inside the soul of people that
becomes a part of them which then is
what allows them to internalize that
belief system also allows Disney to
merchandise because people have this
real affinity for these characters in
the way that they make them feel okay so
those are two things have I need to do I
need to be able to create intellectual
property that has a meaningful impact on
people and then I also need to make sure
that it's something that merchandises so
I'm looking at how did I spend my time
so I broken things down into essentially
three pillars and I look at do things
feed into those three pillars so one
community that's huge I want to pull
people out of the matrix and I believe
that creating a community is absolutely
essential to that for two reasons one
emotionally as you come into impact
theory it's got to feel awesome now
that's important because to the other
thing the community does for me is it
really gives people the it gives me an
army of people that will mobilize when I
need them so if I say hey guys we've got
this comics really crushing it we want
to sell it to Netflix I want you to show
up today at Netflix holding signs and
say IMPAC
theory or whatever that some percentage
of you is actually gonna go do that but
you're only gonna do that if this
community has been amazing it's been
value add to you and it's felt awesome
it's made you feel better about yourself
made you feel more capable it's giving
you real skills okay so that's why
community's huge so I'm evaluating over
the last three hours did I do something
that move the community forward was it
meaningful the only reason I do the
social content it's all [__] community
the second thing is money right gotta
make money that's just the truth of the
matter if we're not making money then
we're not gonna be able to keep doing
this so did I do something that built
into community did I do something that I
can monetize and the third thing is
impact and that's my ultimate driver the
first two are meant to help me do the
third thing so those are the three
pillars the way that I look at things
the way that I determine like okay did I
do anything of the last three hours that
made a meaningful impact that move me
towards one of those three things and if
I did awesome it was time well spent and
if I didn't what the [__] am i doing so
there you have it alright next question
is from Anita
Connelly Facebook when you fail for four
years straight on the business side of
entrepreneurship but you've made massive
improvement and growth on the personal
development side how do you undo a poor
image you created for yourself in your
busy for years and turn it around in
safe face and head towards success okay
the brakes screech at save face don't
worry about saving face don't think
about that at all that's like a personal
development thing you you should know
better than that
so saving face is not the issue the only
thing is head towards success now that
is a great question so first of all if
your business has gotten into some sort
of weird place it's hard to understand
exactly what you mean by undue a poor
image if you have a poor image with your
customer but you believe that the
company is still worth salvaging then do
what Domino's did and literally just say
okay we're gonna overhaul everything the
way that we do it how we communicate the
product like whatever it is you think is
giving you a poor image we're gonna
overhaul at all you're going to do all
of that work to know exactly what you're
gonna do because you're about to make a
big promise to your community and you've
got to make sure you deliver on that so
once you figure out what's going wrong
get the plan in place to address it
you're very confident that once you
launch this it is going to crush and you
got that button down then you're gonna
make a big announcement to your
community and you're gonna say here are
all of our sins here all the things that
we've been doing wrong all the things
we're not proud of you're gonna be
insanely vulnerable you're gonna be 100%
transparent you're not gonna worry about
saving face whatsoever in fact you're
gonna do your best to fall on your face
so right now I'm writing my first book
and literally I'm going out of my way to
make sure that I paint the truth of who
I was before I started going on the
mindset journey because it ain't pretty
but I want people to know the truth of
that even though it's gonna be insanely
embarrassing for me because once you
understand where I started then you
understand a anybody can do it and B it
makes the journey that much more
interesting so but I have to really show
people what I was about so don't worry
about saving face that's not going to
help you transparency authenticity that
will create a real and meaningful
relationship with your community and
that is the important part so get that
plan together and then launch it and be
vulnerable and then execute this [__]
out of that plan all right next up Taji
do gross how do I get more involved with
impact theory and be a team player and
truly make an impact whoo okay so first
and foremost if you're interested if you
live in Los Angeles and you're
interested in being an intern then write
us at connected impact Theory that is
certainly the easiest way second be
extraordinary it's something we have
needs man and people that can help us
meet those needs those are gonna be
people that we're gonna suck into the
ecosystem so this is very much not a
skill set charity this is not where you
come to bring nothing to the table and
get helped a whole bunch this is about
you're [__] amazing at something
that's gonna help me with the three
pillars that I just went through and if
you're amazing at something that helps
me with those three pillars then
fantastic I want to hear from you so
you've got to be really really good at
something so write us tell us what
you're really really good at if it feeds
into that or if you can come here and be
an intern man we're about it
conversely if you don't live in Los
Angeles or that's not the way that you
want to have impact all you have to do
share the content man share the content
that is so huge for us I just can't tell
you enough share the content also I
talked about this at the top of the
episode Evan Carmichael if you guys
don't already know Evan Carmichael go
subscribe to his YouTube channel I am so
grateful to him he did a breakdown of
everything that we're doing wrong on
YouTube it is so genius it's such good
advice it was unbelievable
I'm just beyond grateful so you don't
have to worry about my feelings just
give me a breakdown like if you have
expertise though by the way read Ray
Dalio sprin suppose if you have no
believability in this arena and I'm
gonna look you and go what the [__] do
you know like and I mean that what like
with no disrespect I'm always open to
great ideas but like take take me
somewhere where you're an expert break
down what I'm doing wrong so you can
really add advice because what I need
isn't just the you're doing this wrong I
need to know what I need to do to do it
right but I couldn't be more open to you
saying here all the things you're doing
wrong you don't to worry about my
feelings at all and then just give me
what I need to do to be doing it right
but please have expertise in the area
okay but the short answer is show the
content yay all right question from what
karke on my closest friend becomes
hostile now that he has achieved success
and now I'm alone on my path and what we
both wanted to do in life and now every
work that he puts out hurts me how do I
deal with this I need your help a little
bit with the like grammar and stuff so
okay so basically you and your friend
were going at the same path and now your
friend has become successful and
everything he does upsets you and what
do you do alright here's my advice lean
in you need to legitimately honestly
authentically be happy for your friend
the fact that they found success
regardless by the way of whether they're
being a dick to you they found success
and that's awesome
don't ever waste your time on being
jealous being angry being frustrated
with somebody for having success that's
rad so well played on them now you can
break down what they did that you didn't
do to figure out like how you could have
done the same things have the same kind
of success and I'm all for by the way
you wanting to be better and more
successful than them I
even all for you putting a chip on your
shoulder but that's 20% of your time the
80% of your time needs to be stoked like
that's awesome whenever I see somebody
succeed I'm stoked for them so be happy
don't waste time letting it stink don't
waste more than 20% of you time letting
their success steam you and also figure
out what your responsibility is in the
the degradation of the friendship
because the fact that you tell me that
everything that he puts out hurts you
I'm gonna guess that when he first
started becoming successful you weren't
stoked for him which sucked for him he
felt bad you you because the only person
I'm talking to is you so I'm gonna say
it's all your fault you didn't make them
feel good and so they started to
separate because you were a little bit
jealous of the success that they were
having so instead of being happy for
them excited for them they could feel
that even if you're trying to keep it
under wraps my guess is that it leaked
out that they felt that and so that put
the friendship on tenuous ground then
they start lashing back out at you which
then only escalates you lashing back out
at them and we get into this weird thing
so I think the problem probably and I
don't know the situation for real but
probably could have been solved by you
finding because I get it man I get that
that's not gonna be your initial
reaction but find that place in you to
be happy for them to encourage them to
be super stoked for them even if like
you just have to say okay this is
pettiness this is insecurity on my part
like and then flip that switch in your
head and go look I'm gonna be super
supportive I'm gonna get way behind this
and then do man be their best
cheerleader ever and if you really value
their friendship go to them and say look
I've been Petty I've been insecure and
I'm gonna switch that alright now I'm
gonna be your biggest cheerleader I
still want to beat you but I want to do
it in a healthy friendly way all right
next up this one is from GS motivate L
like you I'm a person who is an T
patient nice how did you build your team
company when you were so driven and
others are not how do you find other
driven people and get them to work with
you okay so this is where you have to be
really [__] realistic first of all I
think that there are two categories
you're going to need to have in your
company linchpins and continuity players
so some people really aren't
be that driven you need to understand
that like that is that like there's no
moral obligation to be a linchpin
there's no moral obligation to give
yourself over completely to your job it
is not realistic certainly not as you
scale so first and foremost I get it man
some people they want a stress-free life
fair enough as long as I know that going
into it as long as I know that's what
they want and I can understand where
they want to fit into the organization
fully okay so continuity players now
linchpins on the other hand you've got
all the leverage in the world because
the lynchpin actually wants to become
extraordinary now success demands a
price of everyone has nothing to do with
me it's not me holding them to a
standard it's not me worrying about
whether they have Drive or not it's me
saying hey you told me your goal was
that either admit to yourself that's not
actually what you want and so that you
can find a lifestyle that actually makes
you happy or own that the things you're
not doing or the things you're doing or
not moving you towards your goals so
then we can just have that really clear
conversation also here culture is a big
deal so for instance Shahs here which by
the way like at some point we should
probably like scoot you in so we can get
you on camera if we want to but he made
me read the book principles by Ray Dalio
and I am blown away this book is
astonishingly good and I highly
recommend it's definitely gonna be on my
book list I'm finished it yet once I
finish it I'll put it on the book list
absolutely phenomenal phenomenal and I
told everybody hey should read it
because it's really having a big impact
on me and you're gonna start to feel it
working its way into the culture here in
the company and then it gives us a
common lexicon so we can talk about
drive we can talk about now moving on to
other books we can talk about grit we
can talk about mindset like these are
all things that we've made part of the
company culture so you want to make sure
people know what the culture is in fact
one of the interns made a very wise
request to me which I still haven't
delivered on but I will which is to
actually write down very specifically
what is the company culture what does it
mean to work here what are the
expectations so that's something advice
I'll give to myself that I'll also give
to you write it down as you scale you're
only as good as the things you write
down so that's super important also in
the hiring
I'm looking for three things and I tell
people I'm looking for those three
things grand ambition Drive and
compassion so right off the bat they
know hey those are the three things so
as we go into the relationship I can say
hey you agreed that you were those three
things and thus I'm gonna hold you to
that standard so there it is all right
next question is from roofer Oh madam
mom BAE that's an awesome name hi Tom
thanks for everything you do you're very
welcome my question is how do you find
that one thing you want to achieve for
you and then map backwards from it and
get to the steps you need to take for
you to achieve that thing I know I'm not
doing as much as I can but my why is
weak so sometimes the motivation or the
vision isn't always there to push me
those extra steps okay this question is
the question that terrifies me to no end
you don't find the one thing and the
reason it terrifies me is I secretly
worry that some people are never going
to build into their life something that
they love that's my secret fear now I'm
going to operate for a minute assuming
that that fear is unjustified and that
everyone can walk the following path but
this is the path that I walked find
something that you're interested in
that's the only thing that I'll say is
sort of a find so you need to encounter
a lot of stuff no question but in that
you're gonna find that there are some
things that you just like they're more
interesting than others you're more
drawn to that thing than something else
so once you find that thing that you
find interesting now you're gonna go
into a hardcore process and through
engagement you're going to find out if
that thing can turn into a fascination
now once something and again through
engagement you realize as a fascination
meaning you really did it you went hard
on that so let's take something it's
always my go-to example in fact I'm
gonna change it up I'll give you my
example so the thing that I found that I
found just unusually interesting was
movies I loved movies as a kid and it
was one of those things I knew I liked
this more than most people I'm just a
little
more into this than the next person and
because of that my dad one day brought
home a camcorder and when I saw that I
thought whoa got ahold of the camcorder
started filming stuff started to realize
how interested I was about being behind
the camera and where you put the camera
and what that does and what storytelling
is and so that came along when I was 12
from 12 to like 18 whenever I could I
was filming I was filming nights I was
filming weekends I was making music
videos I was making if you were supposed
to write an essay in high school I would
ask if I could do a movie instead like I
was doing all of that stuff now this is
when computers and all the stuff that
you guys have like it wasn't like that
back then I couldn't edit digitally that
didn't exist you're doing VHS to VHS
editing which is a nightmare you were
doing it in camera I actually did
in-camera stop-motion once with an ice
cube brace yourself at that one and that
was like just incredible and the more I
did it the more I realized wow man I
like this more and more the more I
engaged the more I discovered the more
intrigued I am so it really became a
fascination so I decided I'm gonna go to
film school
now film school is about gaining mastery
and this is where it gets really
important once you realize something
through engagement has become a
fascination now you need to gain true
mastery you need to decide you're gonna
become the greatest in the world at
something and I went to film school with
the sole notion of I'm gonna become the
best filmmaker the planet has ever seen
when you go into something like that now
it's hardcore now you have to practice
now you have to be disciplined now you
have to push through boredom you have to
go you have to get gritty as [__] you've
got to really grind it out so in that
process of gaining mastery you'll feel
empowered by getting good at it or you
won't and if the more energy and effort
you're putting into getting good it's
sucking the life out of you then it's
not something you should continue to
pursue and you should go do something
else and find the next thing that can
turn into a fascination ultimately
gaining mastery and that and find out if
you love it but if gaining mastery makes
you feel more and more powerful gives
you energy you get excited to learn the
next thing then that's the thing you
want to go down that path no I want to
believe that that is a path that
everyone can walk
but Jesus the number of people that ask
me that question it's starting to scare
me
so I want to know I want all of you guys
out there right now if you're struggling
with this one I want you to stay in
contact with me too I want you to go and
counter a bunch of stuff if you don't
already know what you find interesting
encounter a bunch of stuff anything
random stuff all over the map see if
something is of interest tell me about
it then go down that path engage with it
have fun it's playful at this point does
it turn into a fascination if it does
tell me about it then I want you to go
down the path of gaining mastery and
that's something that I want to be there
every step of the way to see how you're
going where you're struggling all of
that I think it's it's really really
fascinating and maybe this path is
something I'll turn into a book one day
that is that's the path that I went on
which hey it's all coming around full
circle and now I'm building the studio
alright question from William Rosenberg
on Facebook my ten-year-old brother is
overweight and being bullied at school
I'm 25 and live far across the country
from him and and and am struggling to
help improve his situation he is awesome
and it's taking on a growth mindset in
many areas this makes me want to cry but
this situation is really hurting him to
the point of fighting to stay home from
school do you have any advice for him
for me or my family on how to improve
the situation yes I'm gonna take a drink
so we're about to get into this [__]
alright so first of all I'm gonna give
this all to your 10 year old brother but
I want you to sit with him or on the
phone with him or whatever while he
listens to this I should have anxiety
cuz I want to deliver on this so much
don't [__] scroll off that question
alright
dearest ten-year-old brother 1 being
overweight is in your control let's
start with that it's gonna be hard as
hell because it's not just the things
that you think and if you think that
it's harder to lose weight for you than
most people it probably is so there is a
whole host of genetic and most
importantly epigenetic factors and
probably has a lot to do with your
microbiome in fact can I make a
prediction were you a c-section baby if
you were if you were I'm really gonna
freak out but
it's like in America one in five one in
three it's one in five or one in three
kids are born c-section that's crazy
because of the impact that it has on
your microbiome it is not your mom's
fault it's just like we're just now
discovering this stuff now I start with
that because it's very important if
you're overweight and you know you can
do something about it and you choose not
to rad no problem but now like that's
you don't let people bully you for who
you choose to be right so that's step
number one so if you choose to rock out
the being overweight then [__] anyone
who says differently now I get that
that's very easy to say and it is
insanely hard to face the bullying but
unfortunately we may not be able to stop
the bullying so we only have two choices
get really good at dealing with it or
get out of the situation so those are
ultimately going to be your options if
you decide on the other hand that you
want to get lean then get lean now at
ten dude this is gonna be a brutal
journey your brain isn't fully developed
and it won't by the way finish
developing until you're 25 which is
probably a pretty damn good reason to
listen to your brother because his brain
is fully developed
that's just knowing the hardware that
you're dealing with all right so you
know that when you're 10 your amygdala
which is the thing that handles your
emotions que don't worry about the word
it handles your emotions its massive and
it makes everything a really big deal
now if you can understand that your
brain is messing with you and that I
promise as you get older no matter how
bad the bullying gets as you get older
it's going to get easier and easier to
deal with that's just not gonna seem
true but as you get older trust me trust
me you're gonna look back on this and
it's gonna diminish in its importance
now if it's really getting to you
immediately get yourself out of that
situation like that's so so so important
and the suicide rates of people that are
bullied are terrifying so you need to
take this very seriously this is big
brother that's very important for you
but also little brother also incredibly
important I think kids at 10 are
brighter than people give them credit
for you need to understand that also is
your brain messing with you but it's
very serious from a neurochemical
cascade perspective so if the bullying
is getting to that point get
homeschooled move to a different
district whatever you need to do to get
out of that situation get out of it
don't let it escalate okay so now we
know we've got a choice to do something
about the weight but maybe we don't want
to
either one is completely up to you but
whatever you end up choosing like you've
got to start to build that confidence in
yourself now the confidence is gonna
come from competence it's getting good
at something so what is that thing you
want to get good at start putting your
time and energy into that because as you
get get better at something you're gonna
start to feel better about yourself and
feeling better about yourself is the
name of the game now right now you're
letting external people influence how
you feel about yourself which is very
dangerous game so we've got to start
turning inward and finding something
that empowers us now if you're
developing a growth mindset that is
awesome just understand that that takes
even if you're going hard every day
that's gonna take a very long time to
develop that to develop the skill set to
get good so really really invest in that
also find something in your life that
you love find friends that you can have
a real connection with that is a huge
way to combat bullying obviously you've
got a connection to your brother but
there's no substitute for being close
physically close to somebody so even if
you need to start the friendships online
and then try to take them with the
supervision of your parents into real
life I think that that's really
important okay yeah those those are like
the high level things I I'm not happy
with my answer to this it's not
something I've really had to think about
how to deliver this to a 10 year old kid
let me just take one more 30-second shot
at this you're a [__] magical
snowflake but the reality is you're
gonna have to bust your ass to manifest
your potential there's no way around
that I want there to be an easy path for
you there's not this is gonna be all
about really doing things you're proud
of and saying [__] you to people that
are trying to get into your head that is
that is the raw honest truth
those kids people are gonna tell you
that those kids are bullying you out of
insecurity and it's true but here's the
really bad news
it actually makes them feel better and
that's when they bully you and that's
why when people tell you oh they're
insecure and don't worry about what they
think and say and you think that's
[__] like cuz in that moment when
they're bullying you
it feels so horrific because they
feel powerful and you feel weak because
that's the reality of the situation they
are powerful and you are weak in that
moment so getting out of that happens in
one or two ways physically remove
yourself and don't encounter counter the
bullies probably gonna need your parents
help on that may need the school's help
on that and then the other one is become
more powerful that's the [__] truth
so those are your options man get out of
the situation physically become more
powerful that's it
god I really want there to be like I
want there to be more magical advice I
want to send like a magical dragon to
you who will [__] burn the bullies to
a crisp and I want you to know and you
lavish in this those guys one of two
things will either happen to them as
they get older which doesn't help you
now but one of two things is gonna
happen to them either they realize that
they are total [__] and they make a
reversal of the kind that you can't
imagine I actually had a guy who tried
to bully me in high school who
apologized to me later so that's
certainly possible it doesn't help at
the time but either that's gonna happen
or these dumbasses will spend their
entire lives as dumbasses and they will
get nowhere and they won't realize that
they're bullies they won't realize that
they're holding themselves back and so I
promise if you folk and I'm gonna make
you a promise right now for real if you
put all of your time and energy into
getting powerful and you start at the
age of 10 and by powerful I mean skills
you get really good at things that you
really care about let me say that again
really care about okay if you spend the
time by the time you're 25 years younger
than where your brother is now by the
time you're 20 you will be a beast you
can put in the 10,000 hours as they say
of time starting now you're so much
farther ahead of where most people are
at because you have a growth mindset of
10 I didn't get a growth mindset until I
was 26 26 so at 10 if you're actually
already developing a growth mindset
you're gonna win on a long enough
timeline for sure so it's about
surviving the bullying or getting away
from it those are your two options all
right my friend
stay in contact with me in fact DM me
right now and go back to the name
William Rosenberg I want to get in touch
with your brother so you're gonna write
in to connect at impact Theory comm and
we're gonna give your brother a way to
get ahold of me I want to be another
distant champion for him cuz [__]
bullying alright there it is okay next
question I'm sweating next question is
from Joanne IO Nita hey Tom thank you
for all that you do I know you mentioned
that you will be talking about your past
in your book how do you get over the
fear of sharing your past and some of
the awful mistakes you made how do you
talk about your past that doesn't air
too much of your laundry thank you much
appreciated well here's the strategy I'm
gonna employ I'm gonna air a metric
shit-ton of my dirty laundry so yeah I
just I was really dumb and I acted in
accordance with my stupidity and because
my goal is to pull people out of the
matrix and because I'm not there anymore
and I think if I were in fact I know if
I were still mired in it I wouldn't be
able to talk about it but because I've
gotten beyond it I'm able to be really
honest because it doesn't hurt me now if
that makes sense like when I think about
the person I was it doesn't even feel
like me like my frame of reference my
mindset is so dramatically different I I
can't fathom that I'm actually
describing things that I really went
through like laying in bed for three
hours a day every day I literally can't
believe that's me when I think about how
wound up I get about inefficiency of
time now it just seems absurd but
nonetheless that was real and a whole
host of other things so I wouldn't worry
about that I think that once you own it
once you can really be yourself once
your quest is for the truth a real
understanding of who you are where
you've come from what you're doing like
not being afraid of your weaknesses is
incredibly incredibly powerful and one
of the most important things I ever
learned was or developed I should say it
was a willingness is there naked Lee at
my inadequacies not to pretend that I
don't have them too
they're naked Liat them it's so
empowering that that really fuels my
willingness to do that so I would
cultivate that that recognition that the
power comes from a willingness to stare
at all of those mistakes all right
question is from Tyler van Hoek alum as
you were going through your mindset
journey how did you decide who you were
going to spend your time with and learn
from how did you go about sorting
through people that just have conviction
to find quality advice for guiding you
through that mindset journey how did you
go about sorting through people that
just have conviction to find quality
advice I don't understand the last part
so the first part as you were going
through your mindset journey how did you
decide who are you're going to spend
your time with okay so for the most part
it was authors and that those have
really been my most profound mentors
that my wife and at the time she was a
hot chick that I just thought was really
cool and so I wanted to be around her
I didn't think oh my gosh she's gonna
help me become the person that I want to
be I just said she was rad and so I
wanted to be around her she made me feel
better about myself when I was with her
than when I wasn't with her so that
seemed pretty cool so with her that was
why I spent that time and it really was
a serendipity that she ended up being so
amazing for me as somebody trying to
develop myself and then the books though
I saw those out and a lot of times it
was somebody that I admired would
recommend them that I would be reading a
book and they would mention another book
and so I would go read that so yeah
those are like for instance Tony Robbins
who I've long been obsessed with said
everyone should read man search for
meaning so I read it that book rocked me
if you haven't read man search for
meaning you must largely because it's on
my list of 27 books and I know that each
and every one of you is working your way
through those books so when you get to
man search for meaning enjoy but that's
really how I did it
books books books books now podcast
podcasts YouTube I'm actually way harder
on YouTube than I am on podcast but
teach their own so
I find people there YouTube does a great
job recommending other people so I
followed those recommendations I go deep
down rabbit holes yeah that's what I did
I didn't use YouTube back then because
it didn't exist but you get the idea
all right next up Stacey Lee how do you
keep grinding when you feel burned out I
feel alone on a partnership in a
clothing business I started with my
friends they're comfortable with the way
we're moving but I know our branding
company could do so much better I've
been leading by example but it just
feels like we're not on the same page
I'm burning out okay so one I'll I'll
deal with creating energy in isolation
for a second and I'll segment it off
from your business if you want to create
energy in your life that energy is a
choice you simply decide that you're
going to build energy if you can't
create energy from an ATP standpoint
you've got a whole host of problems
already I prioritize sleep I work out
every day and I eat right so from just a
biological mitochondria ATP production
standpoint I'm on point so get that
right first of all second then if you
actually can generate the physical
energy output from your body the rest
becomes motivation it becomes a decision
it becomes where you're putting your
attention if you allow yourself to pay
attention to burning out you're gonna
notice that burn out [__] accelerates
if on the other hand you start thinking
about the exciting things where are you
gonna take the business all the reasons
that you got into this why it's worth
dealing with these partners then all of
a sudden you realize whoa I've got that
energy again you're gonna decide to
bring the energy and you're gonna
[__] bring it now let's deal with
your partners for a second you've got
options and you've got to understand
that your life is a reflection an exact
reflection of the choices you have made
so maybe you chose poorly with your
partners maybe you're not yet the person
you need to be to lead by example to get
them excited
maybe you're delusional about the
situation I don't know maybe your
partners are just [__] heads and you
need to get rid of them that's also a
possibility so now if we're just for
simplicity sake I'll assume they gotta
go so now we need to figure out how do
we get them out so one option buy them
out
okay do we have the capital I'll assume
that we don't so could you buy them out
over time and say look all I want is
control the business I no longer want
you guys involved I want to be able to
give equity to other people so what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna buy your equity
out through sales can we agree to that
I'll even set a point and I'll say that
you've contributed equally to where we
are today I'll even say that if I didn't
do anything extra that we grow by
whatever percentage over the next six to
twelve months so now we've got our
baseline twelve months from now so
twelve months from now even though
you're gonna leave today twelve months
from now I'm gonna give you credit for
that ongoing growth for what you've
contributed our baseline we mark in the
sand at 12 months now I'm gonna say
anything over that I'm buying you out
and we're going to say I'll give and you
can look these numbers up so in a
clothing company it's probably if you
don't have like a brand that has like
massive weight 3x seems reasonable on
revenue so I'm gonna buy you out so
twelve months from now whatever that
number is I'm gonna buy you out at 3x
that number so now we know exactly what
those numbers are and you pay them
overtime so that's one option the other
option is to say I'm gonna give you
vested equity as of today it's gonna be
a massive haircut on where you're at so
let's say that you guys started as equal
owners you could say I'm gonna give each
of you 10% you're gonna leave and never
look back you get to keep the 10%
forever if I sell that 10% is yours
maybe you even do some profit
distributions if I ever distribute
profits then you each get your 10% of
that profit distribution but you're
going to leave and never come back
because I need the equity back to go and
give equity to other people if you can't
agree to that and they won't let you buy
them out then you need to decide one do
we just set standards and we all agree
on what we're gonna do and by the way
that could be a great way where if
they're not willing to agree to like
really contributing and pushing forward
then it's like guys you won't even agree
to what I think are pretty simple things
you won't even agree to match me in time
or match me in effort whatever it is you
want them to match you on so if you're
not willing to do that then how are we
ever gonna make this work and let them
see maybe in seeing that cold hard on
paper they'll realize they do want to be
bought out conversely if
you don't want to do that you may have
to think pay it's actually better for me
to leave and say guys I want to lock in
my equity at 10% or I want to lock in at
12 months from now and get bought out
whatever because I need to go and start
something on my own I don't think you
guys are carrying the weight so don't
fall prey to the sunk cost fallacy where
you think just because you put however
many four years or whatever into your
business that that means I don't now
I've got to stay here forever if your
partners are frustrating you and you're
burning out you're gonna quit eventually
anyway that's precisely what burnout is
so those are your options
okay we only have five minutes left all
right this next question is from Booker
Fritz Facebook Tom quick question how
would you go about helping a business
partner who is staying depressed from
the grind and the struggle to obtain
success
I'm trying super hard to relate to him
and any problems he brings up I solve
ASAP I always try to go from the problem
to the solution as fast as possible and
with little negative emotional room in
between I feel he's stuck in the
negative emotion 95% of the time okay so
the reality is that you need to assess
whether he realizes that or not so if
your partner is like yeah I totally get
it I need to put in the work and then
you can get them to agree okay yep I'm
gonna put in the work come up with a
time frame when do you think you're
gonna be out of that or you're gonna go
to therapy like where we at is this
clinical depression is this just deep
unhappiness is it just pessimism and
negativity like where are we at can you
leverage the negativity and looking at
us as depressed from the grind and
struggle so I'm gonna guess that that's
probably fruitless so if you guys can't
on paper agree with what the strategy is
that he needs to do to evolve his mind
into a growth mindset all the things
that I just said to the other person
about how to deal with their partners
apply here so you either need to buy
them out or you need to get bought out
and leave but being with somebody who's
burning out and refusing to do something
about it
it's a poor strategy for success
so I always meet people with compassion
I'd want to help them and all of that
but if they don't want to be helped if
they're not willing to put in the work
then I'm not gonna sink my time into
that so there you have it okay it's
gonna have to be the last one this is
from
Nicholas Miranda hey Tom how do you
communicate to your manager when you see
they're making actions that go away from
the company's culture without burning
yourself in the process it's all about
agreeing ahead of time so if you're
working with somebody and you say hey
this is the culture right and as a CEO
yeah I get a dictate that literally like
a dictator and everybody that came onto
the company I actually said I'm a
benevolent dictator and I shall run the
company as such I really want your ideas
and want you to bring them to the table
100% 100% I cannot do this by myself and
I want you to feel autonomy and the full
weight of your value but if our ideas
ever come into conflict and we can't
figure it out we're always and forever
going to go with my idea so if you lay
out the company culture they know what
it's all about you've agreed ahead of
time how you gonna treat people and then
they still don't adhere to that and you
bring it to their attention you work
with them you show them if they're like
disinterested in actually working their
way to that you fire them and there's
just no two ways about it so agree ahead
of time make sure it's super clear make
sure it's written down that's pretty
important and then work with them talk
to them be super blunt not in like a
[__] aggressive way like an array
Dalio principles way so you want to be
super super clear very truthful very
honest and foster that kind of open
honest communication within the group
and then if they still don't rise that
challenge get rid of them all right
we're gonna have to tap out there guys
thank you so much for joining me I love
you guys all so much and by the way now
I am everyday I've allocated time to go
in and reply to the comments I don't
feel that I had been consistent enough
in that and it's one of the things I
love most about what I'm doing so
hopefully you'll notice just a a massive
uptick in that for everybody that takes
the time to comment I am so so so beyond
grateful thank you guys so much for
engaging with this community it is
incredibly meaningful and as you know my
obsession right now if you're into
movies TV shows comic books all that
kind of stuff
go to youtube.com forward slash impact
Theory studios Studios where we're gonna
be building our following that's really
going to be into the kind of content
that we produce it's all about mindset
and media so
pulling the mindset out of movies out of
stranger things out of for all of that
good stuff right now we're putting out a
panel show we're gonna be expanding our
content but go check it out oh don't go
there was like a favor to me and oh I
deliver value so you want to go there go
only if you're a huge fan of movies TV
shows comics books all that stuff that's
what we're gonna be covering and so I
only want diehard people there that are
gonna help foster that environment in
the meantime I'll still be doing all of
the stuff that we're doing here
but if you're into that stuff go check
it out youtube.com forward slash impact
Theory Studios all right I will see you
guys there if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]